                             THE PORTABLE HOST
                              Utility Programs
                                Version 3.2

The programs included in this distribution are meant to aid and enhance the
PHOST hosting process. The utilities are:

              CRACK    -- Displays player passwords
              SENDMESS -- Send host-to-player messages
              PTSCORE  -- Alternative scoring utility
              KILLRACE -- Removes a player from a game
              PMASTER  -- Create a new game universe

The PTSCORE program is explained in the file PTSCORE.DOC. The other
programs are fairly self-explanatory; invoking them with the -h option will
display a guide to their usage. The PMASTER program is best described by
its configuration file, PMASTER.CFG.

THESE UTILITIES WILL ONLY WORK WITH PHOST VERSION 3

Installation
============

To build the above programs simply unpack the archive into a new directory
and type 'make'.


How to get it?
==============

The latest version of the PHOST utilities can be found at the PHOST
WWW site:

        http://www-personal.engin.umich.edu/~asterian/phost.html

The most recent version is 3.2 as of March 5, 1998.


Feedback
========

Your comments, suggestions, and bug reports are appreciated. Please send
all messages to the following address:

                          phost-support@umich.edu

Cast of Characters
==================

The PHOST utilities were programmed by Andrew Sterian, Thomas Voigt, with
help from Mike Campbell.


Legal Stuff
===========

All software and documentation in this distribution is copyrighted and must
only be distributed in accordance with the terms below. The software and
documentation is NOT in the public domain but remains the property of the
program authors. All users of this software are given a license to
reasonably use this software subject to the conditions below.

If any part of this software and/or documentation is to be included as part
of a compilation, including but not limited to a CD-ROM distribution, then
the authors of this software must be contacted and express permission must
be obtained from all authors for the software and/or documentation to be
included in the compilation.

The software and documentation may be used at no charge and may be
distributed freely but must always be distributed intact and as a unit with
all files present, including this file. The software and documentation may
be modified for personal use but no modified files may be distributed under
any circumstances. All copies of the software and documentation must be
distributed at no cost, monetary or otherwise, except for a reasonable fee
to cover the cost of physical media (if the copies are distributed on
physical media) which may not exceed US$3.00 (three US dollars) in value
(at current exchange rates, if applicable) per copy.

The software and any documentation are provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will the
authors of this software be liable for direct, incidental or consequential
damages of any kind, even if the authors have been advised of the
possibility of such damages.

All files in this distribution are Copyright (C) 1995-1998 by the program
authors: Andrew Sterian and Thomas Voigt. All Rights Reserved.

